Docs: fully revised lint command for openapi-cli (#360)
Redocly/openapi-cli: docs/commands/lint.md

# `lint`

## Introduction

Redocly OpenAPI CLI can identify and report on problems found in OpenAPI definitions. This helps you avoid bugs and make API definitions more consistent.

The `lint` command reports on problems and executes preprocessors and rules. Unlike the `bundle` command, `lint` doesn't execute decorators.

:::success Tip
To learn more about preprocessors and rules, refer to the [custom rules](../resources/custom-rules.md) page.
:::

## Usage

```bash
openapi lint
openapi lint <entrypoints>...
openapi lint [--max-problems=<n>] [--config=<path>] [--format=<value>]
openapi lint [--generate-ignore-file] [--help]
openapi lint --version
```

## Options

Option                   | Type      | Required?    | Default     | Description
-------------------------|:---------:|:------------:|:-----------:|------------

> `entrypoints`            | `array`   | no           | -           | Array of API definition filenames that need to be linted. See [the section below](#entrypoints) for more options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`entrypoints`            | `array`   | no           | -           | Array of API definition filenames that need to be linted. See [the Entrypoints section](#entrypoints) for more options.
```

`--config`               | `string`  | no           | -           | Specify path to the config file

> `--extends`              | `array`   | no           | -           | Override extends configurations (defaults or config file settings).

Reviewer: question: How does this option work - how to use it, what does the output look like when it's used? It should have its own section with an example, like the other options do.

`--format`               | `string`  | no           | `codeframe` | Format for the output.<br />**Possible values:** `codeframe`, `stylish`

> `--generate-ignore-file` | `boolean` | no           | -           | Generate ignore file

Reviewer: suggestion: Add links to sections

#### Pass entrypoints via configuration file

Instead of full paths, you can use aliases assigned in your `apiDefinitions` within your `.redocly.yaml` configuration file as entrypoints. For example, `petstore`:

```bash command
openapi lint petstore
```

```yaml .redocly.yaml
apiDefinitions:
  petstore: ./openapi/petstore-definition.json
```

In this case, after resolving the path behind the `petstore` alias (see the `.redocly.yaml` tab), `lint` will validate the `petstore.json` definition file. The presence of the `.redocly.yaml` configuration file is mandatory.

#### Empty entrypoints

You can omit entrypoints completely when executing the `lint` command:

```bash
openapi lint
```

```yaml .redocly.yaml
apiDefinitions:
  petstore: ./openapi/petstore.json
  production: ./openapi/production.yaml
  sandbox: ./openapi/sandbox.yaml
```

In this case, if no API definitions are specified, `lint` will validates all entrypoints listed in the `apiDefinitions` within your `.redocly.yaml` file. The presence of the `.redocly.yaml` configuration file is mandatory.

> :::warning Important Note

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::warning Important
```

# `lint`

## Introduction

> Redocly OpenAPI CLI can identify and report on problems found in OpenAPI definitions. This allows you to avoid bugs and make API definitions more consistent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Redocly OpenAPI CLI can identify and report on problems found in OpenAPI definitions. This helps you avoid bugs and make API definitions more consistent.
```

Reviewer: Just to simplify the phrasing

The `lint` command reports on problems and executes preprocessors and rules. Unlike the `bundle` command, `lint` doesn't execute decorators.

:::success Tip
To learn more about preprocessors, rules, and decorators, please refer to [this](../custom-rules.md) document.
:::

## Usage

```bash
openapi lint
openapi lint <entrypoints>...
openapi lint [--max-problems=<n>] [--config=<path>] [--format=<value>]
openapi lint [--generate-ignore-file] [--help]
openapi lint --version
```

## Options

> option                   | type      | required?    | default     | description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Option                   | Type      | Required    | Default     | Description
```

-------------------------|:---------:|:------------:|:-----------:|------------

> `entrypoints`            | `array`   | no           | `[]`        | Array of API definition filenames that need to be linted. (See [the section below](#entrypoints) for more options)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`entrypoints`            | `array`   | no           | `[]`        | Array of API definition filenames that you want to lint. (See [the Entrypoints section](#entrypoints) for more options)
```

> `--config`               | `string`  | no           | -           | Specify path to the config file

Reviewer: It looks like a lot of the same feedback I left for [the bundle command](https://github.com/Redocly/openapi-cli/pull/350) applies here as well. Instead of me spamming you with individual comments and suggestions, you can just model this `lint` page on the `bundle` page and apply the same principles suggested in that other PR. Then I'll do another review just to cover any loose ends.

Author: @skadinna I made another stage of review. Seems like everything is OK. Please proceed with your review

Error was generated by the path-not-include-query rule.
```

> Please note that the problems are displayed in the following format: `file:line:column`. For example, `petstore-with-errors.yaml:16:3`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the problems are displayed in the following format: `file:line:column`. For example, `petstore-with-errors.yaml:16:3`.
```

In this format, `lint` shows the file name, line number, and column where the problem occurred. However, the output is compressed and omits other contexts and suggestions.

### Max problems

With the `--max-problems` option, you can limit the number of problems displayed in the command output. If the number of detected problems exceeds the specified threshold, the remaining problems are hidden under the "spoiler message" that lets you know how many problems were hidden.

```bash request
openapi lint --max-problems 200
```

```bash output
...
< ... 2 more problems hidden > increase with `--max-problems N`
```

### Generate ignore file

With this option, you can generate the `.redocly.lint-ignore.yaml` file that suppresses the severity of errors and warnings in the output. You will still receive visual feedback to let you know how many problems were ignored.

This option is useful when you have an API design standard, but have some exceptions to the rule (for example, a legacy API operation). It allows for highly granular control.

```shell request
openapi lint openapi/petstore.yaml --generate-ignore-file
```

```bash output
...
Generated ignore file with 3 problems.
```

:::warning

> This command will overwrite an existing ignore file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command will overwrite an existing ignore file.
```

:::

> To generate ignore file for multiple definitions, pass them as arguments:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To generate an ignore file for multiple definitions, pass them as arguments:
```
